# Capstone-Project-1
My Api: https://spoonacular.com/food-api/docs#Generate-Meal-Plan
This project was done with Python and PosgreSQL with FLask being the web framework of choice. My website, https://thorpe-meal-planner.onrender.com/, was made with the goal of helping people meet their nutrition goals with fun and easy recipes using the spoonacular API. After registering an account, users can use the “Make a meal plan” form to enter all their preferences for the types of meals they would like to be recommended. The form has fields for:
Type of diet with choices: Gluten Free, Ketogenic, Vegetarian, Lacto-Vegetarian, Ovo-Vegetarian, Vegan, Pescetarian, Paleo, Primal, Low FODMAP, Whole30.
Timeframe - a meal plan for a day or a week.
Target Calories
Exclude - for any dietary restrictions, allergens or simply foods the user does not like.
Upon submission, the user is brought to the webpage of the generated meal plan. This generated meal plan is stored in an unordered list on the home page that the user sees after a successful login. For each meal in the meal plan, the user can leave a review that will be visible to all other users who that meal has been recommended to. The user also has options to delete a meal plan and a comment if they choose to do so. The reason I chose to make a meal planner is because I learned how to cook for myself by looking up recipes online. The issue that I ran into was that I had to find meals that fit my palate and figure out serving sizes that were enough to leave me feeling satiated while still having enough left for the rest of the week. I am a competitive athlete so there are times in the year when I will have to zone in on what I eat and how much I eat. I made this website as a one stop go for anyone who, like me, would like to take control of their diet while still making fun meals that taste amazing. User passwords are hashed and stored in the database for authentication when trying to log in. The meals, meal plans and comments of each user are also stored in the database so they can be retrieved when needed to generate the webpage of any particular part of the website. When the user is finished with the website they can log out until next time.
